#### What is Structured Data?
Structured data is information that has been formatted and transformed into a well-defined data model. The raw data is mapped into predesigned fields that can then be extracted and read through SQL easily. SQL relational databases, consisting of tables with rows and columns, are the perfect example of structured data.
The relational model of structured data utilizes memory since it minimizes data redundancy. However, this also means that structured data is more inter-dependent and less flexible. Now let’s look at more examples of structured data.

#### Examples of Structured Data
Structured data is generated by both humans and machines.  There are numerous examples of structured data generated by machines, such as POS data like quantity, barcodes, and weblog statistics. Similarly, anyone who works on data would have used spreadsheets once in their lifetime, which is a classic case of structured data generated by humans. Due to the organization of structured data, it is easier to analyze than both semi-structured and unstructured data.

#### What is Semi-Structured Data
Your data may not always be structured or unstructured; semi-structured data or partially structured data is another category between structured and unstructured data. Semi-structured data is a type of data that has some consistent and definite characteristics. It does not confine into a rigid structure such as that needed for relational databases. Organizational properties like metadata or semantics tags are used with semi-structured data to make it more manageable; however, it still contains some variability and inconsistency.

#### Semi-Structured Data Examples
An example of semi-structured data is delimited files. It contains elements that can break down the data into separate hierarchies. Similarly, in digital photographs, the image does not have a pre-defined structure itself but has certain structural attributes making them semi-structured. For instance, if an image is taken from a smartphone, it would have some structured attributes like geotag, device ID, and Date Time stamp. After being stored, images can also be assigned tags such as ‘pet’ or ‘dog’ to provide a structure.
On some occasions, unstructured data is classified as semi-structured data because it has one or more classifying attributes.

#### What is Unstructured Data?
Unstructured data is defined as data present in absolute raw form. This data is difficult to process due to its complex arrangement and formatting. Unstructured data management may take data from many forms, including social media posts, chats, satellite imagery, IoT sensor data, emails, and presentations, to organize it in a logical, predefined manner. In contrast, the meaning of structured data is data that follows pre-defined data models and is easy to analyze. Structured data examples would include alphabetically arranged names of customers and properly organized credit card numbers. After understanding the definition of unstructured data, let’s look at some examples.

#### What is Unstructured Data Example
Unstructured data can be anything that’s not in a specific format. This can be a paragraph from a book with relevant information. An example of unstructured data could be Log files that are not easy to separate. Social media comments and posts need to be analyzed.
Here is an example of unstructured data from a log file.
Unstructured data is qualitative, not quantitative, so it is mostly categorical and characteristic in nature. For example, data from social media or websites can be used to figure out future buying trends or determine the effectiveness of a marketing campaign. Another unstructured data analysis example is detecting patterns in scam emails and chat, which can be useful for enterprises for monitoring policy compliance. That’s why unstructured data is extracted and stored in unstructured data warehouses (also called data lakes) for analysis.

###### The following points highlight the differences between structured data vs. unstructured data vs. semi-structured data:

•	<strong>Organization</strong>: Structured Data is well organized; therefore, it has the highest level of organization, while semi-structured data is partially organized; hence the level of organizing is lesser than structured data but higher than that of unstructured data. Lastly, unstructured data is not organized at all.

•	<strong>Flexibility and Scalability </strong>: Structured data is relational database or schema dependent, therefore less flexible and difficult to scale, while semi-structured data is more flexible and simpler to scale than structured data. However, unstructured data doesn’t have a schema that makes it most flexible and scalable out of the other two.

•	<strong>Versioning </strong>: Since structured data is based on a relational database, versioning is performed over tuples, rows, and tables. On the other hand, in semi-structured data, tuples or graphs are possible as only a partial database is supported. Lastly, in unstructured data, versioning is likely as a whole data as there’s no database support.

•	<strong>Transaction Management </strong>: In structured data, data concurrency is available and, therefore, usually preferred for the multitasking process. While in semi-structured data transaction gets adapted from DBMS, but still, data concurrency isn’t available. Lastly, in structured data, neither transaction management nor data concurrency is present.

